Updated iOS review strings (#247)
flodolo/documentation: src/products/iOS_products/review_iOSstrings.md

## Reviewing the PR

Let's consider Firefox for iOS as an example - in fact, these apply to other iOS products as well, and they also follow the same train schedule. When you’re getting close to the end of the [iOS l10n cycle](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hER_w7pOsWSjeBaUqMd_9ClYCCGlwc4jaFYpcBvFE8g/edit#gid=1960046531), the iOS team will make a pull request in order to land new strings for the upcoming release.

Let’s consider a past PR, which was done for [v6.0 here](https://github.com/mozilla-l10n/firefoxios-l10n/pull/19).

The first thing you’ll want to do is to check the changes to the [/templates folder](https://github.com/mozilla-l10n/firefoxios-l10n/pull/19/commits/8a8ecbcb748b0f023557d6c1b07e6208a2e953ea).

### Acceptable changes

Changes to attributes like tool-version and build-num are expected, they happen every time you change the version of Xcode.

Note that these will not appear as new strings for localizers and they will not need to touch them.

Changes to comments (<note>) are irrelevant in terms of string updates, so they’re also OK.

### Potentially problematic changes (removals)

> Then you start scrolling down, checking if the new strings make sense: the first one you find is NSCameraUsageDescription.

Reviewer: Nit
```suggestion
Then you start scrolling down, checking if the new strings make sense: the first one you find is `NSCameraUsageDescription`.
```

You mostly need to pay attention to the strings removed. Double-check each time that iOS team clearly realizes that they won’t be able to release updates to v5 (or any v5.x release) once strings are exported.

For example: `Menu.NightModeAction.Title` is removed. If it’s used in v5, and the iOS team plans to release an update to v5 in the future, localizations will miss that string.

### Quickly review other locales

Once you’ve checked `templates`, you can pick at least one locale and see what changes, as you can see [for example here](https://github.com/mozilla-l10n/firefoxios-l10n/pull/19/commits/a1c041a012e6996bd8bdaec88f21f3c34fe383b0).

## Reviewing strings during the cycle

> You should try to periodically check out the strings landing, and try to localize them in your head: how would you translate them? Would you be able to do it without the app? Is the localization comment clear enough?

Reviewer: I think we should drop the "periodically" here, because that's something you do for every review.

You might also need to identify the bug that added that string, see if there are screenshots, or ask if the iOS team can provide one. The point below explains how to find that bug.

> ### How to find the bug that introduced a string

Reviewer: Since we start talking about bug vs issue later, maybe more generic.
```suggestion
### How to find the code that introduced a string
```

It doesn’t have a localization comment, which is bad.

In fact currently, the only strings that can not have localization comments are strings that are located in `InfoPlist.strings` and `Info.plist` - see [Bug 1277515](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1277515) for more details. Otherwise, strings should always have localization comments.

So first you open the [main repository page](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/firefox-ios).

Then you use the search box at the top, searching for the [string ID (or the string)](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/firefox-ios/search?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=NSCameraUsageDescription).

In this case you find two occurrences. The first one is the most interesting, so you open [the file here](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/firefox-ios/blob/978bf46bb680291c61c5d21b6dc26472388a374f/Client/en.lproj/InfoPlist.strings).

Then use the `Blame` [link on top](https://github.com/mozilla-mobile/firefox-ios/blame/978bf46bb680291c61c5d21b6dc26472388a374f/Client/en.lproj/InfoPlist.strings).

On the left, you should (almost always) find the [bug reference](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1312842).

> Note that we now usually use GitHub issues instead of Bugzilla bugs, so `Blame` will most surely bring you to a GitHub issue.

Reviewer: Drop the `usually`?

> # Reviewing strings for a new release of a Mozilla iOS product

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Reviewing strings for a new release of Mozilla iOS products
```

> Usually, a new release of our iOS products means an update to strings. If this is the case, a pull request will be made by the iOS team, in order to land these new strings, either in the [mozilla-l10n firefoxios-l10n repository](https://github.com/mozilla-l10n/firefoxios-l10n) or the [mozilla-l10n focusios-l10n repository](https://github.com/mozilla-l10n/focusios-l10n).

Reviewer: I'd shorten the text in the links, it makes them harder to read
https://github.com/mozilla-l10n/documentation/blob/07911271ddc48e268347ddc7c000477e9976fb68/src/products/iOS_products/review_iOSstrings.md

```suggestion
Usually, a new release of our iOS products means an update to strings. If this is the case, a pull request will be made by the iOS team, in order to land these new strings, either in the [firefoxios-l10n](https://github.com/mozilla-l10n/firefoxios-l10n) or the [focusios-l10n](https://github.com/mozilla-l10n/focusios-l10n) repositories in `mozilla-l10n`.
```

At this point, the PR is reviewed by an l10n-driver - most often by the PM in charge of the project.

Let’s go over some of the steps needed over time in order to review correctly strings for a new release.

## Reviewing the PR

> Let's take examples from Firefox for iOS - in fact, these apply to other iOS products as well, and they also follow the same train schedule. When you’re getting close to the end of the [iOS l10n cycle](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hER_w7pOsWSjeBaUqMd_9ClYCCGlwc4jaFYpcBvFE8g/edit#gid=1960046531), the iOS team will make a pull request in order to land new strings for the upcoming release.

Reviewer: Is it just me or "Let's take examples" sounds strange? Not sure if it's an adapted French expression.
```suggestion
Let's consider Firefox for iOS as an example - in fact, these apply to other iOS products as well, and they also follow the same train schedule. When you’re getting close to the end of the [iOS l10n cycle](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1hER_w7pOsWSjeBaUqMd_9ClYCCGlwc4jaFYpcBvFE8g/edit#gid=1960046531), the iOS team will make a pull request in order to land new strings for the upcoming release.
```

On the left, you should (almost always) find the bug reference:
https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1312842

Note that we now usually use GitHub issues instead of Bugzilla bugs, so `Blame` will most surely bring you to a GitHub issue.

## Wrapping up your work

So you’ve reviewed the strings during the cycle, and the PR looks good - this means you can now merge the PR so the strings get exposed in Pontoon.

> Pontoon ([here for Firefox for iOS](https://pontoon.mozilla.org/projects/firefox-for-ios/) and [here for Focus for iOS](https://pontoon.mozilla.org/projects/focus-for-ios/) should get the new strings automatically after a few minutes, but it’s always a good idea to double check just in case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pontoon ([here for Firefox for iOS](https://pontoon.mozilla.org/projects/firefox-for-ios/) and [here for Focus for iOS](https://pontoon.mozilla.org/projects/focus-for-ios/)) should get the new strings automatically after a few minutes, but it’s always a good idea to double check just in case.
```
